---
title: "Introduction to Applied Nonlinear Dynamics (Summer 2018 TA)"
collection: teaching
type: "Face-to-Face, undergraduate course"
venue: "Miami University, Department of Mathematics"
date: 2018-06-28
location: "Oxford, Ohio"
---

## Teaching Assistant
As part of the SUMSRI program, I was given the chance to fill in for a professor who was away attending a conference. This gave me the valuable opportunity to lead several classes and take on the responsibility of teaching the material. I prepared lecture notes on phase plane (Textbook: Steven H. Strogatz, "Nonlinear Dynamics and Chaos"), created problem sets and provided detailed solutions for each one. In addition, I maintained close communication with the professor, providing regular progress reports to ensure that I was meeting his expectations. Looking back on the experience, I can say with certainty that it was incredibly rewarding, and I feel extremely fortunate to have been given such a chance.

## SUMSRI
The Summer Undergraduate Mathematical Sciences Research Institute (SUMSRI) is a seven week program hosted by the Department of Mathematics at Miami University. The program aims to support undergraduate students, particularly those from underrepresented demographic groups, in pursuing research and graduate education in the mathematical field. Each year, approximately 15 undergraduate students from across the country are selected to participate in the program. During the program, students haev the opportunity to conduct research under the guidance of a faculty member in the mathematics department. 
