---
title: "Precalculus (Spring 2019, Fall 2018, Spring 2018 TA)"
collection: teaching
type: "In person, undergraduate course"
venue: "Miami University, Department of Mathematics"
date: 2019-01-28
location: "Oxford, Ohio"
---

## Teaching Assistant
My primary responsibilities were attending each lecture in person with students and lecturer, grading exams, leading smaller sessions twice a week where students actively engaged in problem-solving, reviewing course materials from the large lectures. Additionally, I posted weekly summaries on Canvas, provided detailed solutions to problem sets, assisted with WebAssign homework, and offered in person office hours. 

## Textbooks
* Required Textbook: 
     + James Stewart, Lothar Redlin, and Saleem Watson, "Precalculus: Mathematics for Calculus"

## Course Description
This is a 5 credit-hour course which is intended to prepare students for Calculus I. The course covers the fundamentals including the real numbers, exponents and radicals, equations, non-linear inequalities, and graphing on the coordinate plane. We will also explore a variety of functions and their properties including linear, polynomial, rational, trigonometric, exponential, and logarithmic functions, as well as considering inverse functions and combining functions with composition. 

## Student Learning Outcomes
The primary goals of this course are:

* Students should be proficient working with the following families of functions: linear, quadratic, higher-order polynomial, rational, exponential, logarithmic, radical, piecewise-defined (including absolute value), and periodic/trigonometric functions.
* Students should be proficient at geometric topics such as: analyzing angles, analyzing right triangles, convert between radian and degree measure, use Pythagorean Theorem, use trig ratios of right triangles, use similar triangles.
* Students should be proficient in creating equivalencies in order to simplify expressions, solve equations and inequalities, or take advantage of a common structure or form.
* Students should gain experience in using and creating mathematical models, interpreting models, and determining a reasonable applied domain for the model as well as articulate the limitations of the model.
* Students should be able to define the six trigonometric functions in terms of the unit circle and understand them in the context of right triangles. Students will be able to solve for unknown angles and sides in triangles (given sufficient information). Students will be able verify common trigonometric identities algebraically, and will be able to solve a variety of trigonometric and inverse trigonometric equations. Students will also be able to solve applied problems involving such equations.

## Software
None.
