---
title: "Applied Bayesian Inference (Spring 2023)"
collection: teaching
type: "Asynchronous, graduate course"
venue: "University of Kentucky, Dr. Bing Zhang Department of Statistics"
date: 2023-01-09
location: "Lexington, KY"
---

## Teaching Assistant
As a teaching assistant, my goal was to create a supportive and encouraging learning environment that would help all students understand the course material. My primary responsibilities were grading homework assignment and exams, while providing detailed feedback to enhance students' leaning. I also assisted students with debugging or troubleshooting R code in case of errors. To ensure effective communication and support, I stayed highly organized with good time management and made myself readily available to students via prompt email responses, virtual office hours, and assistance both during and outside of scheduled office hours. Additionally, I scheduled Zoom meetings with students to address any questions or concerns that arose during the course.

## Textbooks
* Required Textbooks: John K. Kruschke, "Doing Bayesian Data Analysis: A Tutorial with R, JAGS, and Stan"

## Course Description
This course provides an introduction to Bayesian inference and a summary of Bayesian methods for fitting, assessing, and selecting models. Topics include Bayes’ Rule and probability, Binomial models for proportions, Poisson models for counts, Normal models for continuous data, linear regression, log-linear and contingency tables, hierarchical models, hypothesis testing, model comparison,
and selected applications.

## Student Learning Outcomes
The primary goals of this course are:

* Understanding the Bayesian interpretation of probability.
* Defining simple models for comparison of proportions and means, linear regression, and generalized linear models.
* Defining hierarchical models for comparison of proportions and means, linear regression, and generalized linear models.
* Fitting simple models via Bayesian estimation methods, including approximate and sampling-based techniques.
* Estimating complicated models using specialized software, such as JAGS and STAN.

## Software
R.
